# Antenna 3 function notes.

101Cats includes a combo-box for each receiver to select the antenna configuration. The options available are **Ant 1**, **Ant 2**, and a third which is dependent on the configuration selected in the **Operation Setting** menu under **ANT3 Select**. Recent versions of 101Cats have included a combo-box named **Antenna 3 Function**, but this has omitted one supported option, **TRX**. This is now implemented, but subject to some controls that are described below.

The Antenna 3 socket on the FTdx101 series can be configured in several ways. These include options to connect an active receive antenna to it in order to reduce QRM/QRN. It can also be configured as a third transmit antenna. The problem with this is that if you connect an active antenna but configure the antenna 3 socket as a general purpose TX/RX socket and select it, the next time you transmit, you will push 100W of RF into the pre-amplifier of your receive antenna and almost certainly destroy it.

In order to address this, I've added a pair of configuration items to 101Cats. These are **Antenna3 Permit TX** and **Antenna 3 Warn TX**. They have been added to the configuration dialogue box. By default, they are both disabled. If **Permit TX** is enabled, then the **TRX** option in the **Antenna 3 Function** combo-box is enabled and you will be able to select it. This will, in turn, make the third option in the **Antenna** combo-boxes **Ant 3**. Setting the radio in this way will result in power being output on the antenna 3 socket.

If you turn on **Antenna3 Permit TX**, then the **Antenna 3 Warn TX** configuration option will be taken into account. Under these circumstances, the **TRX** option in **Antenna 3 Function** will become enabled and selecting it will enable the **Ant 3** setting in the **Antenna** combo-box. But with the **Antenna 3 Warn TX** option turned on, each time you select **Ant 3** as the antenna, you will be presented with a modal message box warning that this configuration could result in damaging an external receiver.
